Question ID: 09d942c6
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Information and Ideas
Inferences
Hard
Question
A social species, chickens will cry out to one another in warning if they sense a hawk or other predator nearby. But if alone, a chicken will remain
silent so as not to attract the predator’s attention. Sonja Hillemacher decided to use this behavior to determine whether individual chickens
possess a capacity to recognize themselves visually when reflected in a mirror (a common standard for animal intelligence). In the first condition
of her study, the subject could see its reflection, but no other chickens were present. In a second condition, another chicken was visible to the
subject. Hillemacher presented an image of a hawk to the subject in both conditions, reasoning that if chickens lacked a capacity for visual self-
recognition, then ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Answer
A. neither study condition would elicit an audible response from the subject.
B. the subject likely would cry out a warning in both study conditions.
C. only the first study condition would elicit an audible response from the subject.
D. the subject would fail to distinguish its reflection from the image of the hawk.
Correct Answer: B
Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s discussion of Hillemacher’s study of visual self-recognition in
chickens. According to the text, when a predator is nearby, chickens cry out in warning if another chicken is present but remain silent if alone to
avoid attracting the predator’s attention. The text explains that Hillemacher set up one condition in which a subject was alone and could see its
reflection in a mirror and another condition in which the subject could see another chicken, and then presented an image of a hawk (a predator).
It follows that if chickens aren’t capable of recognizing themselves visually in a mirror, the subject likely would cry out a warning in both
conditions; in the first condition because it would perceive its reflection as another chicken—that is, it would think another chicken is present—
and in the second condition because it would see that another chicken is actually present.
Choice A is incorrect because the text suggests that regardless of chickens’ ability to visually recognize themselves in mirrors, the subject in the
second condition would cry out a warning because another chicken is actually present. Fur ther, if chickens do lack visual self-recognition, the
subject in the first condition likely would also cry out because it would think its reflection is another chicken. Choice C is incorrect. The text does
suggest that if chickens lack the ability to visually recognize themselves in mirrors, the subject would cry out a warning in the first condition
because it would think its reflection is another chicken. However, the text also indicates that regardless of their capacity of self-recognition,
chickens cry out a warning when other chickens are present, and another chicken is present in the second condition. Therefore, both conditions—
not just the first one—likely would elicit an audible response from the subject. Choice D is incorrect because the text indicates that the study was
focused on determining whether chickens recognize themselves visually in a mirror or instead perceive their reflections as other chickens; there’s
no suggestion that a lack of self-recognition would cause a chicken to confuse its reflection with the image of a hawk.
