Question ID: 71c2cea9
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Information and Ideas
Inferences
Hard
Question
Belonging to neither the minimalist nor the abstract ar t movements but heavily influencing both, Constantin Brâncuşi spent his sculpting career
returning to the same few themes—a kiss, a sleeping head, and a bird in flight—each rendered in pristine, simple, almost abstract forms. Perhaps
the most famous example is Bird in Space (1923), a tall, slender bronze sculpture that arcs upward in a manner suggestive of flight but that
otherwise lacks any identifiable characteristics of a bird. Despite the seeming simplicity of his works, the exacting standards to which Brâncuşi
held his work meant that he produced relatively few pieces over his career. There is thus something of a disparity between ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Answer
A. the nature of much of Brâncuşi’s work and the abstraction of Bird in Space.
B. Brâncuşi’s relatively limited productivity and the diversity of his sculptures.
C. the themes Brâncuşi explored and the themes favored by ar tists he inspired.
D. Brâncuşi’s impor tance to the history of ar t and his total ar tistic output.
Correct Answer: D
Rationale
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s discussion of the sculptor Constantin Brâncuşi. The text establishes
Brâncuşi’s significance by noting that although he belonged to neither the minimalist nor the abstract ar t movements, he heavily influenced both
—a detail that signals his impor tance to the history of ar t. At the same time, the text notes that the exacting standards to which Brâncuşi held his
work meant that he produced relatively few pieces over his career. Because the text presents both Brâncuşi’s major ar tistic influence and his
limited output, it is reasonable to infer that the disparity the text identifies is between his impor tance to the history of ar t and his total ar tistic
output.
Choice A is incorrect because the text explicitly identifies Brâncuşi’s Bird in Space as “a famous example” of how the ar tist conveyed his
preferred themes—in this case, a bird in flight—through simplicity bordering on abstraction. Thus, this par ticular sculpture is consistent with the
nature of much of Brâncuşi’s work instead of showing a disparity, or marked difference, with it. Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates
that Brâncuşi returned to the same few themes, suggesting limited thematic diversity. Since his productivity and his thematic diversity were both
limited, these two aspects of Brâncuşi’s work are consistent with each other instead of showing a disparity, or a marked difference. Choice C is
incorrect because although the text mentions that Brâncuşi heavily influenced both the minimalist and abstract ar t movements, it doesn’t
discuss the specific themes favored by ar tists in those movements. There is therefore no basis for identifying a disparity between Brâncuşi’s
themes and those of ar tists he inspired.
