Question ID: 58817765
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Reading and Writing
Information and Ideas
Inferences
Hard
Question
Some geologists have proposed designating the period from 1950 to the present as a new geological epoch (the Anthropocene) characterized by
human impact on Ear th, but they have struggled to identify reliable stratigraphic markers of the epoch’s onset. Inta Dimante-Deimantovica and a
research team investigated whether the initial appearance of primary microplastics—invented and mass-produced for industrial and other
purposes, beginning around the middle of the twentieth century—in sedimentary layers could serve this role. The researchers analyzed European
lake sediment profiles from the late eighteenth century to the present. Microplastics were present in all layers, likely because cer tain microplastic
shapes enabled rapid downward migration. The researchers therefore concluded that ______
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Answer
A. the lowest sedimentary layer in which microplastics are found cannot be treated as indicative of the chronological beginning of the
Anthropocene. 
B. the presence of microplastics in sediment dating to the late eighteenth century casts doubt on the appropriateness of designating 1950 as the
onset of the Anthropocene. 
C. microplastics are not prevalent enough in sediment to serve as a reliable sign of the human impact characteristic of the Anthropocene. 
D. using the earliest presence of microplastics as a stratigraphic marker of the beginning of the Anthropocene is likely to be viable in some
locations but is not viable in Europe.
Correct Answer: A
Rationale
Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s discussion of microplastics as a proposed stratigraphic marker for the
onset of the Anthropocene. The text indicates that although primary microplastics (used for industrial and other purposes) were invented and
mass-produced beginning only around the mid-twentieth century, researchers found microplastics throughout European lake sediment profiles
dating from the late eighteenth century to the present. According to the text, microplastics were in all layers of sediment likely because
microplastics of cer tain shapes can rapidly migrate downward—that is, they can move into sedimentary layers that predate their manufacture.
Since it can’t be assumed that the date of a layer in which microplastics are found indicates when the microplastics were first deposited, it
follows that the lowest sedimentary layer containing microplastics can’t be treated as indicative of the chronological beginning of the
Anthropocene.
Choice B is incorrect. The text explains that microplastics appeared in layers of sediment long predating 1950 likely because cer tain shapes
allowed them to rapidly migrate downward—that is, the par ticles physically moved into older layers. This finding doesn’t cast doubt on the
appropriateness of considering 1950 as the onset of the Anthropocene; it doesn’t suggest a flaw in thinking that humans’ impact on Ear th shifted
around 1950 but simply suggests that the position of microplastics in sediment isn’t useful as an indicator of such a shift. Choice C is incorrect
because the issue presented in the text isn’t a lack of prevalence of microplastics (and though no quantity is indicated, microplastics were found
across all the layers) but rather the inability to determine when microplastics were originally deposited, since the par ticles can migrate rapidly
into older sediment layers. Choice D is incorrect because the text indicates that the likely cause of microplastics being present in all layers of the
sediment profiles is a proper ty of microplastic par ticles themselves (cer tain shapes allowing them to rapidly move downward into older layers),
not a characteristic of European lake sediment or anything else specific to Europe. There’s no reason to think the issue of par ticle migration
wouldn’t occur in other locations.
