Question ID: d65b9a87
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Math
Problem-Solving and
Data Analysis
One-variable data:
Distributions and
measures of center and
spread
Hard
Question
The dot plots represent the distributions of values in data sets A and B.
Which of the following statements must be true?
I. The median of data set A is equal to the median of data set B.
II. The standard deviation of data set A is equal to the standard deviation of data set B.
Answer
A. I only
B. II only
C. I and II
D. Neither I nor II
Correct Answer: A
Rationale
Choice A is correct. The median of a data set with an odd number of values that are in ascending or descending order is the middle value of the
data set. Since the distribution of the values of both data set A and data set B form symmetric dot plots, and each data set has an odd number of
values, it follows that the median is given by the middle value in each of the dot plots. Thus, the median of data set A is 
, and the median of
data set B is 
. Therefore, statement I is true. Data set A and data set B have the same frequency for each of the values 
, 
, 
, and 
. Data
set A has a frequency of 
 for values 
 and 
, whereas data set B has a frequency of 
 for values 
 and 
. Standard deviation is a measure
of the spread of a data set; it is larger when there are more values fur ther from the mean, and smaller when there are more values closer to the
mean. Since both distributions are symmetric with an odd number of values, the mean of each data set is equal to its median. Thus, each data
set has a mean of 
. Since more of the values in data set A are closer to 
 than data set B, it follows that data set A has a smaller standard
deviation than data set B. Thus, statement II is false. Therefore, only statement I must be true.
Choice B is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
Choice C is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
Choice D is incorrect and may result from conceptual or calculation errors.
