Question ID: e03f3477
Assessment
Test
Domain
Skill
Difficulty
SAT
Math
Problem-Solving and
Data Analysis
Inference from sample
statistics and margin of
error
Medium
Question
A sample consisting of 
 adults who own televisions was selected at random for a study. Based on the sample, it is estimated that 
 of all
adults who own televisions use their televisions to watch nature shows, with an associated margin of error of 
. Which of the following is
the most plausible conclusion about all adults who own televisions?
Answer
A. More than 
 of all adults who own televisions use their televisions to watch nature shows.
B. Between 
 and 
 of all adults who own televisions use their televisions to watch nature shows. 
C. Since the sample included adults who own televisions and not just those who use their televisions to watch nature shows, no conclusion can
be made.
D. Since the sample did not include all the people who watch nature shows, no conclusion can be made.
Correct Answer: B
Rationale
Choice B is correct. It's given that based on a sample selected at random, it's estimated that 
 of all adults who own televisions use their
televisions to watch nature shows, with an associated margin of error of 
. Subtracting the margin of error from the estimate and adding
the margin of error to the estimate gives an interval of plausible values for the true percentage of adults who own televisions who use their
televisions to watch nature shows. This means it's plausible that between 
, or 
, and 
, or 
, of all
adults who own televisions use their televisions to watch nature shows. Therefore, of the given choices, the most plausible conclusion is that
between 
 and 
 of all adults who own televisions use their televisions to watch nature shows.
Choice A is incorrect and may result from conceptual errors.
Choice C is incorrect. To make a plausible conclusion about all adults who own televisions, the sample must be selected at random from all
adults who own televisions, not just those who use their televisions to watch nature shows.
Choice D is incorrect. Since the sample was selected at random from all adults who own televisions, a plausible conclusion can be made about
all adults who own televisions.
